.. _user-role:

************************************************************************
Log in with GitHub authentication
************************************************************************

.. meta::
   :description: About the user roll in Splunk On-Call.


Log in with GitHub
------------------

When logging into VictorOps, you may decide to do so via GitHub
authentication. If you have a GitHub account, whether you’re a new
VictorOps user or an existing one, you can log in via GitHub.

To get started, head to the VictorOps `login
page <https://portal.victorops.com/membership/>`__:

 

.. image:: images/Screen-Shot-2018-06-07-at-2.19.30-PM.png

 **Existing VictorOps User**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From the sign-in screen, select **Sign in with GitHub**. You’ll then be
taken to GitHub where they’ll ask for your login credentials.

If you aren’t currently logged into GitHub in your browser, you’ll see
the following page:

 

.. image:: images/Github-Sign-on-Not-already-signed-in.jpg

 

(Note: If you’re currently logged into GitHub in your browser, you’ll
skip the page above and see the page below.)

Enter your GitHub login credentials and click **Sign in**. If you have
two-factor authentication enabled through GitHub, you’ll need to verify
your account by entering a verification code.

Once you’ve been verified by GitHub, you’ll be brought to the next page
where you’ll select **Authorize VictorOps** to sign in via GitHub.

 

.. image:: images/Github-Sign-on-authorization.jpg

 

After selecting **Authorize VictorOps**, you’ll be redirected back to
VictorOps to link your GitHub account. Here, you’ll enter your VictorOps
login credentials to link your account with your GitHub account:

.. image:: images/Screen-Shot-2018-06-07-at-4.40.39-PM.png

And there you go. You’re now logged into your team’s VictorOps portal!

 

New VictorOps User
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From the sign-in page, select **Need a VictorOps Account?**. Then, the
following page will give you an option to register with your GitHub
account.

 

.. image:: images/GitHubAuthNeedVOAcct.png

.. image:: images/Screen-Shot-2018-06-08-at-9.40.18-AM.png

 

After selecting **Register with GitHub**, you’ll be brought to a page
where you’ll need to enter your GitHub credentials.

(Note: If you’re already logged into GitHub in your browser, you’ll skip
the first page below and be directed to the page to authorize VictorOps
with GitHub.)

 

.. image:: images/Github-Sign-on-Not-already-signed-in.jpg

.. image:: images/Github-Sign-on-authorization.jpg

 

After selecting to **Authorize VictorOps** in GitHub, you’ll be brought
to the VictorOps sign-up form. The Email and Username fields will
auto-fill with your GitHub information.

Enter the rest of your information and select **Get Started**.

 

.. image:: images/Screen-Shot-2018-06-08-at-10.01.24-AM.png

From here, you’ll follow a couple optional prompts to set up mobile SMS
alerts and/or invite more teammates.

After that, you’re all logged in and finished! You’ve now registered and
authenticated your VictorOps account with GitHub.
