[ht_toggle title=“Requirements” id=“” class=“” style=“” ]

**Versions Supported: Full-Stack** 

**VictorOps Version Required: N/A SaaS**

[/ht_toggle]

All alerts are processed through the Rules Engine before reaching your
timeline in descending order (top to bottom).  This means that **the
order of the rules is very important**.  From the main Rules Engine
page, you can click and drag individual rules to re-order them.  By
default, any new rules you create will appear at the top of the list.

It is a good general practice to add a detailed description when
creating a rule so your fellow admins will understand its purpose.

Click on the symbols at the right side of the bar to edit or view a
rule.

.. figure:: images/Alert-Rules-Engine-Managing-Rules_Edit-and-Expand.png
   :alt: Alert Engine Rule with right side of bar highlighted

   Alert Engine Rule with right side of bar highlighted

Options include the ability to enable / disable (rules are enabled by
default), delete, and preview.

Preview
-------

To use the preview window, set your matching condition and then click
the edit symbol (three horizontal lines) and select *Preview*.  The
preview option opens a small window on the right side of your rules that
will display any recent events in your timeline which meet the matching
condition you have set.

This allows you to view the content of your alerts without having to
switch back to the timeline.  One useful trick is to set a very broad
matching condition (use a **\*** in the *pattern* section), then open
the preview and find the alert you want to manipulate.  Clicking *More
Info* on the alert shows you the full payload.  Hover over any field and
click to automatically populate the matching condition of your rule to
match that selection.

To close the preview window, click on the edit symbol again and
choose *Close Preview.*

Scope Limiting
--------------

You may encounter situations where wildcard matching is required for a
commonly occurring phrase (“down” or “database” for example).  Matching
on such a common phrase can cause your rule to be unintentionally
applied to alerts that you do not wish to alter.  This problem can be
solved by using a sequence of sequential rules to limit the scope of the
wildcard matching condition.

For example, let’s say we want to catch the word “staging” in the
entity_id field and convert those alerts to INFO alerts so we don’t
create an incident and notify anyone at 3:00 AM for a problem in a
staging environment.  However, there are some cases where you *do* want
to create an incident for the staging environment, so creating a single
rule to match on the phrase “staging” could prevent that from happening.
 In this case we only want to affect alerts from one particular
monitoring tool (New Relic).

First, we need a rule to match on the monitoring tool value.

|Alert Rules Engine Rule matching New Relic alerts| The matching
condition for this rule catches all alerts from New Relic.  It then uses
a transformation action to declare a new field (*new_relic_staging*) and
uses variable expansion to import the value of the *entity_id* field
into that new field.  This means that all alerts from New Relic now have
a new field that is unique to New Relic only.  The subsequent rule will
now use wildcard matching on that new field.

|Alert Rules Engine rule changing to INFO| This second rule (MUST BE
POSITIONED BELOW THE FIRST RULE!) matches on the new field created by
the first rule, using wildcard matching to catch the phrase “staging”,
and then takes the appropriate action.  This limits the scope of the
wildcard matching rule to only alerts from New Relic.

Stop Flag
---------

At the bottom of any rule setup window, there is an option to stop
processing after the rule has been applied.

|image1|\ Every alert sent to VictorOps, runs through the list of rules
from top to bottom before reaching the timeline.  (More on managing and
ordering rules below)  This check box allows you to stop an alert from
continuing to process through subsequent rules.  This has performance
advantages (speeds up processing of the alert) and allows you to prevent
subsequent rules from overwriting the current rule after it has acted
upon the alert.

.. |Alert Rules Engine Rule matching New Relic alerts| image:: images/Alert-Rules-Engine-Managing-Rules_New-Relic-Example.png
.. |Alert Rules Engine rule changing to INFO| image:: images/Alert-Rules-Engine-Managing-Rules_New-Relic-Example-2.png
.. |image1| image:: images/Stop-Flag.jpg
