Many resilient monitoring systems will automatically resolve a problem
without any human interaction required. Paging users for incidents that
could auto-resolve creates unnecessary noise for your on-call users. To
avoid this issue, you may want to set up a waiting room. This article
describes the process of setting up a waiting room escalation policy
that will temporarily hold an incident for a configurable time period to
allow for an automated resolution to an issue. When this action takes
place, the incident is then automatically closed in VictorOps and
on-call users will not be paged. If the incident remains open longer
than the chosen interval, it is then routed to the responsible
team/escalation policy as a triggered alert.

Please note: the Rules Engine section of this configuration requires a
Full-Stack level of service.

--------------

**Create a new Escalation Policy**
----------------------------------

Navigate to the Team in need of a *waiting room* Escalation Policy.
Click *Escalation Policies* >> *Add Escalation Policy.*

**Set up the Escalation Policy**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Click the drop-down for *Immediately,* and choose a time interval to
delay alerts that are sent to this team’s Waiting Room Escalation
Policy.

For the *escalation type*, choose *Execute Policy* and then choose the
policy from the team that will be responsible for these incidents should
they fail to auto-resolve within the configured time delay.

.. image:: images/Escalation-policy.png

**Create a Routing Key**

Navigate to *Settings* >>>  *Routing Keys*.

Select *Add Key*\ **,** give the new routing key a name and choose the
waiting room team you’ve just created.

.. image:: images/routing-key.png

--------------

**Set up a Rules Engine rule to route these incidents to the Waiting Room**
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Navigate to *Settings >>> Alert Rules Engine,* and then choose *Add a
Rule.* In the following example, we’ve configured our rule to match the
entity_id field to a wildcard phrase within variable of the entity_id
field. Any incoming alert that has this matching condition will be
routed to the waiting room escalation policy. This way you limit the
scope of the matching condition to these issues only, without affecting
an on-call team’s ability to be paged immediately in the event of an
urgent issue.  For more information on using the Rules Engine click
`HERE <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/transmogrifier/>`__.

.. image:: images/rules-engine.png

If you have a variety of incidents that require this approach, and
multiple teams/escalation policies that will be responsible, you will
need to set up a unique waiting room escalation policy (with its own
routing_key) for each of those teams’ policies. For example, “Ops
Waiting Room” (escalation policy points to Ops team), and “SRE Waiting
Room” (escalation points to SRE team), etc.
