Incident Management from the Mobile App
---------------------------------------

You have actionable access to your incidents from anywhere using the
Splunk On-Call mobile app. Easily view you and your teams active
incidents from the home page with the ability to quickly drill down into
the incident details, without the clutter of other teams incidents to
sort through.

 

.. image:: images/Your-incidents.png

 

Available Incident Actions from the Mobile App
----------------------------------------------

 

.. image:: images/Filter.png

 

 

Filters
~~~~~~~

Filter and sort through incidents between the “Yours”, “Team”, and “All
Org” incident tabs. Making it easy to view incidents based on their
incident state (i.e. filter to view only triggered incidents).

 

 

 

 

 

**Manage Incidents**
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By clicking the three dots in the top right hand corner of your mobile
app you will find three additional incident management options
available. From here you can **Create a Manual Incident**, **Enable
Maintenance Mode**, and **Acknowledge All of Your Triggered
Incidents.** 

.. image:: images/Manage-Incidents.png

There are a number of actions that can be taken on an incident in the
Splunk On-Call Mobile App.

-  Acknowledge, Reroute, Snooze, Resolve
-  `Add
   Responders <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/multi-responder-incident-response/>`__
-  `Add Conference
   Bridge <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/conference-bridges/>`__

.. image:: images/Incident-Actions.png

 

Shortcut Actions
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We understand the often time sensitive nature that our product is
leveraged, with that there are a few ways that the mobile app can
expedite your incident actions.  In order to get incidents acknowledged
quicker to **increase your MTTA** or reroute to the right person for the
job to **increase your MTTR**, there are **incident shortcuts**!

**Swipe Left** on an incident to see incident action options. Swiping
left on a triggered incident will give you the option to acknowledge,
reroute, or snooze.

**Swipe Right** on an incident to either acknowledge or resolve it.

.. image:: images/Incident-Shortcuts.png
