Filtering is a useful tool to isolate only the messages, notifications
and incidents which concern the user. Splunk On-Call offers several
methods to customize the interface to view only what is relevant.
Filtering is on a Per User Basis.

Timeline Filtering:
-------------------

In the main Timeline click on the filters icon.

Here you will see two tabs with the the options to filter by Routing
Keys and Message Types. The Routing Keys filter  allows you to filter
the timeline to see only Incidents that are associated to your Routing
Key(team/teams).

The Message Types filter allows you to filter the timeline by message
type, so that you can selectively view Alerts, Chats, System Actions,
and Delivery Insights. Here you can uncheck the messages you would like
to exclude from your timeline.

Incident Filtering:
-------------------

You have 3 main tabs in the Incident Pane:

**All Incidents -** This tab shows all incidents being ingested by the
Splunk On-Call Platform (Not User or Team specific).

**Your Incidents**- This tab shows all incidents you are being paged
for, have acknowledged, or resolved.

**Teams Incidents -** This tab shows all incidents your Team is being
paged for, has acknowledged, or resolved.

People Pane Filtering:
----------------------

People Pane allows you to filter by Teams or by Users along with a
custom search:

Under the **Teams** tab you can filter by **Your On-call**, **Your
Teams**, or **All Teams.**  Clicking on **schedule** under the team name
provides a hot link to that teams schedule. Under the **Users** tab you
can filter by **On-call**, **Engaged**, **Teammates**, or **All Users**.
**On-call** users are denoted by the orange and black oak leaf to the
right of their name. **Engaged** users are denoted by a bright green
circle to the left of their name. This shows who has been active in the
platform over the past 10 minutes (fades out over this time).

Main Page Filtering:
--------------------

Within the Timeline, you have 3 panes; People, Timeline, and Incidents .
You can filter these panes under the **Customize View** button on the
top right of the page. When you click on People, Timeline, or Incidents,
it will hide that pane. When Hiding the Timeline and People Panes, the
Incident Pane is reactive, and it moves from a Card View to a Table
View. From here you can sort by Incident #, Description, and Date. This
gives you an organized high level view of the incidents in your
Organization.
