Manual Take On-Call
===================

Manual Take On-Call is an action you can perform in VictorOps to take
someone’s on-call shift from them with just a few clicks! Rather than
manipulating the entire team’s schedule or creating a scheduled
override, Manual Take On-Call provides the one-off functionality for
your on-call teams to swap/change personnel in real-time. 

How does it Work?
-----------------

A Manual Take On-Call allows one user to take on-call responsibilities
from another user. This can be done by navigating to the People Pane
within the Timeline. 

.. image:: images/Take-On-Call.jpg

 

Click into the desired user’s card. Locate the Escalation Policy for
which you wish to take on-call responsibilities. Click the *Take Shift*
button in line with the appropriate Escalation Policy and respond to the
confirmation prompt to take the on-call responsibility from that user,
for that team.

Clear Take
~~~~~~~~~~

After you have manually taken a shift you, and the individual that you
took on-call for, both have the option to *Clear Take*. This button will
appear next to the escalation policy both in your user profile card and
the other individual’s user profile card.

 

Take Back
~~~~~~~~~

If someone takes a shift from you, you have the option to *Take Back*
that shift, effectively ending that take. The *Take Back* button will
appear next to the escalation policy in your profile card and that of
the person who took from you.

 

--------------

Things to Note
--------------

Hard-coded User in the Escalation policy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you *Take On-call* for a user who is hard-coded in the first step
of an Escalation Policy (i.e., they are in a *Notify User* step),
VictorOps imposes a 30 day limit on the take. The end day/time will
appear in the descriptive text beneath the escalation policy that you
took on-call for in the user profile card.

.. image:: images/Take-on-Call-thing-to-Note@2x-1.png

Take On-call in the Calendar View
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Another thing to know: a *Take On-call* is denoted by a strikethrough in
the main calendar as opposed to the colored bar associated with
`Scheduled
Overrides <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/scheduled-overrides/>`__.

 

Mobile App
----------

For mobile app users, instructions on how to perform manual takes can be
found
`here <https://help.victorops.com/knowledge-base/ios-application/#take-override>`__.
