*The Timeline* acts as the homepage of your VictorOps instance. The
layout of the Timeline is designed to help you surface pertinent
incident information quickly, improve usability and decrease overall
time to resolution.

Incidents & Incident Tabs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All alerts and activity can be found in the Timeline. For a more
organized view, the Incident Pane allows you to view incidents based on
who they belong to and their current state (triggered, acknowledge, or
resolved).

All incident and alert messages derived from integrated monitoring tools
in the *Timeline* and the *Incident Pane* includes their respective
logos to help you rapidly identify the source of an alert. Manually
created incidents, along with alerts and incidents originating from the
*Email Endpoint* or the *REST API* integrations, will remain logo free.

.. image:: images/Timeline.jpg

Incident Cards
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Access *Incident Details* directly from the *Timeline* by clicking the
*incident details* link—this will expand the incident and its event
history in the *Incident Pane*. Quickly identify responsible parties
during a firefight by easily seeing which policies are being paged. Here
you can also fins annotation and alert counts to the bottom left-hand
corner of the *Incident Card*. Clicking on the *Annotations Count* will
open the Annotations tab in the I_ncident Details\_ in the *Incident
Pane*.

.. image:: images/incident-detail.jpg

Filters & Customized View
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Is the *Timeline* too noisy? Let’s drill down. There are multiple ways
to filter the *Timeline* to only show events and messages concerning
you. Here’s how to filter:

-  

   -  **All Filters**: Selecting this option displays a drop-down with
      options to filter the *Timeline* by **Route Key** and/or **Message
      Type.** VictorOps will remember which options you select so your
      choices persist between sessions.

      -  **Delivery Insights Quick Filter**: Clicking on this filter
         (which works like an on/off button) will filter the *Timeline*
         for only Delivery Insights Message Types - all other message
         types will be hidden.
      -  **Chat Quick Filter: Clicking on this filter (which works like
         an on/off button) will filter the Timeline for only Chat
         messages. This is useful when you’re trying to follow a
         conversation in the Timeline—it removes all other events so
         chats are streamlined.**

It’s important to note the **Delivery Insights** and **Chat** **Quick
Filters** can’t be used simultaneously. If one filter is on (the filter
icon will turn blue when it’s active), clicking the other filter turns
the first off. Filter selections under **All Filters** will be
disregarded when a Quick Filter is on.

.. image:: images/Filters.jpg

If you would prefer to have a less noisy view of your VictorOps
homepage, you have the ability to customize your view to include/exclude
what is most important to you. For example, if you would prefer to only
see the Timeline and Incident Pane, you can deselect the people pane.

.. image:: images/Customize-View.jpg
